ADR for defining naming convention for Fabric E2E sample (#906)
Azure-Samples/modern-data-warehouse-dataops: e2e_samples/fabric_dataops_sample/docs/adr_naming_convention.md

# Naming convention for Fabric E2E sample

> This document describes the naming convention for the Fabric E2E sample. It includes the naming convention for the following:

Reviewer: convention should be conventions since there are many
(two changes here)

Author: Updated

- Git Folders
- Scripts (python, shell, powershell etc.)
- Configuration files (.yml, .json, .cfg etc.)
- Azure/Fabric resources

## Status

Proposed

## Context

> As the Fabric E2E sample is a complex solution with multiple components, it is important to have a consistent naming convention for the various components. This will help in better organization and management of the solution. It would also help multiple developers to work on the solution without any confusion.

Reviewer 2: This is not just for the Fabric sample - the idea is to be cross-repo.
```suggestion
As the DataOps repository contains several and complex solutions with multiple components, it is important to have a consistent naming convention for the individual and collective elements that compose the repo. This norm will help to  better organize and manage of the solution and additionally will allow multiple developers to work effectively without any confusion.
```

Author: This ADR is specifically for the Fabric E2E sample.

Reviewer 3: Lets aim to close this PR initially targetting just the Fabric E2E sample, but open a tasks to create a repo-wide naming convention standard as it may require additional rework to the existing single tech sample in Fabric.

## Proposal details

### GitHub files naming convention

| Item Type | Convention | Additional Details | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Folders | snake_case | Use lowercase and "_" | `fabric_dataops_sample`, `dataops_pipeline` |

> | Markdown files | snake-case | Use lowercase and "_" | "README.md", `adr_naming_convention.md` |

Reviewer 4: markdown files. (may be you should say upper or lower).. as standard .md files will all be in upper case (e.g README.md, CONTRIBUTING.md )

Author: Changed

| JSON files | kebab-case | Use lowercase and "-" | `fabric-config.json` |
| Configuration files | kebab-case | Use lowercase and "-" | `dataops-config.cfg` |
| Wheel files | [pep-427](https://peps.python.org/pep-0427/) | {distribution}-{version}(-{build tag})?-{python tag}-{abi tag}-{platform tag}.whl | `azure_monitor_opentelemetry-1.6.1-py3-none-any.whl` |

### Variables/Functions naming convention

| Variable Type | Convention | Additional Details | Example |
| --- | --- | --- | --- |
| Environment variables | UPPER_SNAKE_CASE | Use uppercase and "_" | `AZURE_CLIENT_ID`, `AZURE_CLIENT_SECRET` |
| Shell script variables to read Terraform output | `tf_`snake_case | Prefix with "tf_" | `tf_storage_account_name` |
| Shell/Python script variables (in general) | snake_case | Use lowercase and "_" | `storage_account_name` |
| PowerShell script variables | `$`camelCase |  | `$storageAccountName` |
| Shell/Python Functions | snake_case | Use lowercase and "_" | `get_storage_account_name` |
| PowerShell Functions | PascalCase | Use "Verb-Noun" structure | `Get-StorageAccountName` |
| Terraform variables | snake_case | Use lowercase and "-" | `environment_name` |

> ### Azure/Fabric resource naming convention

Reviewer 2: So you are really making this specifically for the e2e sample for Fabric. Shouldn't we have a Universal convention for the entire repo? Meaning - for a Fabric  Single Tech sample for Fabric you should be using also this convention - but you are creating a silo on the E2E sample. I would have a unique convention for the entire repo. Maybe Fabric notebook would be nb-fb -... and a databricks notebooks would be nb-db-.... so we can be broader with our convention

| Resource/Item Name | Convention | Default Name |
| --- | --- | --- |
| Resource Group | `rg-*` | N/A - passed |
| ADLS Gen2 Account | `st*` | `st<base-name>` |
| Storage container name | N/A | "main" |
| Azure Key Vault | `kv-*` | `kv-<base-name>` |
| Entra Security Group | `sg-*` | N/A - passed |
| Log Analytics Workspace | `la-*` | `law-<base-name>` |
| Application Insights | `appi-*` | `appi-<base-name>` |
| Fabric Capacity | `cap*` | `cap<base-name-trimmed>` |
| Fabric Workspace | `ws-*` | `ws-<base-name>` |
| Fabric Lakehouse | `lh_*` | `lh_<base-name>` |
| Fabric Environment | `env-*` | `env-<base-name>` |

> | Fabric Notebooks | `nb-*` | "nb-010-setup.ipynb", "nb-020-standardize.ipynb", "nb-030-transform.ipynb" |

Reviewer 2: I still don't understand why are we using 010/020/030 - can you share the logic?

Author: @ydaponte , "0x0" gives the flexibility of adding additional functionality between different processes. For example: if we decide to write another notebook just for the validations after setup but before standardize, we can plug it as "nb-011-validation.ipynb" notebook. This retains ordering and adds flexibility.

But I also get your point about being consistent. Happy to rename it to "0x_" as well. Let's discuss in a meeting.

| Fabric Pipelines | `pl-*` | "pl-000-main.json" |

> | Fabric Environment | `env-*` | `env-<base-name>` |

Reviewer 4: repeated twice

Author: Fixed

| Fabric Custom Pool | `sprk-*` | `sprk-<base-name>` |
| Azure DevOps Variable Group | `vg-*` | `vg-<base-name>` |

> 

Reviewer 2: And I would add an agreement towards the development when it comes to commits and pull requests. But let's discuss on a meeting. What I'm referring here is to the naming convention for commits and pull requests.

Reviewer 4: +1 and then we link this content into main CONTRIBUTING.md guide so that everyone will stick to these conventions when creating new branches, PRs, commit messages,

> | Fabric Custom Pool | `sprk-*` | `sprk-<base-name>` |

Reviewer: Fabric Custom Spark Pool I think would be a better detail.
Just in case a future Compute Pool is added to Fabric.

Author: Updated
